#summary IMF file format.

= The IMF format =

IMF (id Software Music Format) file format is similar to [DRO]: it contains raw [AdLib] register events (register number, register data) and timing information.

= Consideration =

However, IMF compared to [DRO] is harder to play:

 * usually it cause larger files than [DRO]
 * there are many versions with or without header, etc. Even "official" information on the format seems to be not true on the ones I am working as test IMF songs
 * the "speed" information which is needed ot interpret the timing events is not stored in the file, so you must know and specify it before playing

These are also reasons that current C64 player does not support IMF files directly but you need a conversion done on your PC first. Direct support for IMF files are planned though (in the future). My converter can be found in the source repository with name [https://code.google.com/p/c64-sfx-cartridge-player/source/browse/trunk/imf2dro.c imf2dro.c].

= Details =

http://www.shikadi.net/moddingwiki/IMF_Format

*However* it seems that situation is not so simple. For example the IMF files I have there is a 4 bytes long "size" information, while the format description mention only 2 bytes long one. It's worth to mention that [AdPlug]'s play utility (adplay) seems to play those anyway. So it seems the most accurate format description can be got by inspecting [AdPlug]'s source :) For more information, check wiki page for [AdPlug] out.

= IMF files =

You can find "some" here:

ftp://modland.ziphoid.com/pub/modules/Ad%20Lib/Apogee/

= My studies on IMF =

After I realized that IMF format is not so a "standard" as even IMF descriptions seems to be not-always-true, I've decided to write an own specification based on the format manuals I could [http://www.shikadi.net/moddingwiki/IMF_Format find on the net] and also [AdPlug]'s source was a very nice help to understand the different "versions" of the header (or "headerless") IMF versions.