#summary About the S3M file format.

= The S3M format =

S3M is the module format of the famous DOS based tracker Stream Tracker 3 from Future Crew.

= Details =

In general S3M is mostly known as a format like MOD or XM (using digital audio samples) but now my focus is on a not-so-widely known feature: it allowed to use AdLib "instruments" too instead of digital samples. It's a nice idea: formats like [DRO] and [IMF] are just "raw dump" of the register events you must write into the YM3812 registers. Yes that is simply but in general it's much longer than using some advanced file formats which defines instruments and does not work only at register level.

This also means that creating a *good* S3M player is hard, it's more magnitude complex than [DRO] and [IMF] player which is (in its heart) just a "load next byte, write to YM3128 register, wait specified time, loop". The final goal of mine to create an S3M player which can be called as "quite good". Then the next target: write an S3M tracker software so you can create/modify S3Ms with [AdLib] instruments :)

*However this is only a plan currently.*

= File format =

Various random resources:

 * http://lclevy.free.fr/mo3/s3m.txt
 * http://16-bits.org/s3m/
 * http://wiki.multimedia.cx/index.php?title=Scream_Tracker_3_Module

However, I was not so successfull to find descriptions which are rather S3M (and module, in general) specific: descriptions of the "commands" used in patterns, the meaning of exact commands, and their representations (it's OK to say that command "S", but what does it mean, what hex value is used to represent that? Even that's a problem, though I was lazy to check out some open source player's source to find an answer, to be honest).

= S3M files =

ftp://modland.ziphoid.com/pub/modules/Ad%20Lib/Screamtracker%203/